Welcome!
This is JW Broadcasting®
for January 2021.
On Saturday, October 3,
the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society
of Pennsylvania
held its annual business meeting
via videoconferencing.
In normal times, after we care
for that necessary business,
we share spiritual encouragement
in a larger meeting.
However, we’re not living in normal times.
Because of the COVID-19 pandemic,
we had to readjust our plans.
However, the good news is,
we did not cancel
the spiritual portion of the program.
You likely already enjoyed
Brother Herd’s talk
in October about the 2021 yeartext.
If not, we encourage you to do so.
In addition, the Governing Body assigned me
to be the chairman
for the 2020 annual meeting,
and I’ll also be the anchor
for this month’s and next month’s
JW Broadcasting programs.
We’re happy that in this month’s broadcast,
you’ll see the first part
of that spiritual portion
of the annual meeting.
It begins with a special musical prelude.
Please enjoy!
Annual meetings of the Watch Tower
Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania
have been held for many years
—in fact, since January 1885.
They have been held in different states
in the United States
and, in 1983, in Britain.
This year, 2020, the corporate meeting
is being held by videoconference.
The spiritual program has been recorded
for the benefit of the brothers
all over the earth.
This is a historic annual meeting.
In the past, we have had
some historic annual meetings.
For example,
at the annual meeting
held on October 2, 1944, in Pittsburgh,
the members of the Pennsylvania corporation
adopted six resolutions amending its charter.
The charter had provided
that voting shares be issued
to contributors of funds
to the Society’s work,
but the third amendment
eliminated that provision.
Thereafter, directors of the Society
were to be voted into office
by individuals
who were fully devoted to Jehovah,
irrespective of the amount of money
that they contributed
to advance the Kingdom work.
After the historic annual meeting in 1944,
a vital question remained.
Since the Governing Body
was then closely identified
with the Pennsylvania corporation’s
seven-member board of directors,
did this mean that the Governing Body
could never be made up
of more than seven anointed Christians?
Moreover, since the directors
are elected
by the members of the corporation,
were the corporation members electing
members of the Governing Body
at the annual meeting each year?
Are the directors and officers
of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society
of Pennsylvania
and the members of the Governing Body
one and the same, or are they different?
These questions were answered years later.
They were answered
at the annual meeting held
on October 1, 1971
—another historic annual meeting.
On that occasion, one of the speakers
pointed out
that the governing body preceded
the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society
of Pennsylvania
by hundreds of years.
Now, despite some who opposed Jehovah
and the earthly part of his organization
and who claimed there was no governing body
in the first century
and hence saw no need
for a Governing Body today,
a governing body was formed
at Pentecost of 33 C.E.,
more than 18 centuries
before the Pennsylvania corporation
came into existence.
At first, the governing body
consisted of 12 apostles.
Its number was enlarged later,
for “the apostles and older men in Jerusalem”
were taking the lead.
Now notice what happened later
here in the Bible book of Acts
in chapter 15.
So other issues had been handled
by the 12 apostles,
but now with this circumcision issue
that came up among the congregations,
notice what we read here
in verse 2 of Acts 15:
“But after quite a bit of dissension
and disputing
“by Paul and Barnabas with them,
“it was arranged for Paul, Barnabas,
and some of the others
“to go up to the apostles
“and elders in Jerusalem
regarding this issue.”
So the issue was going to be settled
by the first-century governing body.
And now it’s larger than the apostles;
it included the elders and the apostles
in Jerusalem.
Now, what is the benefit
of following the direction
from the governing body in the first century
and, by extension, today?
Notice that at Acts 16:4, 5,
they’re carrying the decree there.
And it mentions:
“As they traveled on through the cities,
“they would deliver to them for observance
“the decrees that had been decided on
“by the apostles and the elders
who were in Jerusalem.
“[Now notice.]
“Then, indeed, the congregations
“continued to be made firm in the faith
and to increase in number day by day.”
Isn’t that beautiful?
There was a governing body.
They didn’t have a need for legal entities
to advance the Kingdom work
in the first century,
but they did indeed need a governing body.
As long as conditions in this world permit,
the Governing Body will make use
of legal entities.
If a legal entity is dissolved
by government decree,
the preaching work will still go on.
Even now, in lands
where restrictions are in effect
and no legal entities are used,
the Kingdom message is being proclaimed,
disciples are being made,
and theocracy’s increase continues.
In the midst of this pandemic,
the preaching continues.
Many experiences are happening globally.
Now, one I received and confirmed
from two elders serving at Warwick Bethel,
I think you’ll appreciate.
So much is going on
and so many nice experiences.
A health-care system that operates
dozens of hospitals across the United States,
and many of them were COVID hot spots,
wanted to publish a video interview
featuring two frontline health-care workers
in one of the hospitals.
Well, it happened that the two nurses
they chose for the interviews
were our brothers.
They were asked to supply
pictures of their families.
One of the pictures had been taken
before the pandemic
in front of a paradise scene
in one of our Assembly Halls.
Now, the woman coordinating
the video interviews
told the brother
that she recognized that scene.
So he asked her if she was a Witness.
She replied:
“No, but I studied with the Witnesses,
“and I know it’s the truth.
I can see how close we are to the end.”
The brother then told her
that she’d be happy to know
that the second nurse
whom she had interviewed the day before
was also a Witness.
Then the woman burst into tears.
She said it made sense that the two nurses
selected for this interview
would both be Witnesses.
“I can see it in your approach
and in the belief
in something bigger than this.”
And she said she planned
to resume her Bible study.
So we pray for this woman
and all the wonderful experiences happening
as the preaching goes on
during this pandemic.
So this is all happening
because Jehovah’s Witnesses
plant and water
and “God [keeps] making it grow.”
All glory goes to Jehovah.
At this meeting, as was pointed out last year
with the announcement
about the Ramapo project,
you will learn that the faithful slave
is not slowing down.
We have more work to do until Jehovah says
the preaching work is finished.
As we look to the future, we are confident
that Jehovah will care for the spiritual
and material needs of his people.
He and his Son, Jesus Christ,
will continue to provide
the heavenly direction and support needed
to complete the Kingdom preaching work.
We therefore beg Jehovah for his spirit
to finish the work he has given us.
While Jehovah’s organization here on earth
is legally established and abides
by governmental requirements
for its business meetings,
this organization is bound by a higher power.
Before he left the earth,
Jesus told his followers:
“Go . . . make disciples . . . ,
teaching them.”
But he did even more.
Jesus promised
that during the time of the end,
we would also receive
“food at the proper time”
to help us fulfill that commission.
Has Jesus kept his promise?
Please watch the following video.
It is entitled “Go, . . . Teaching Them.”
Everyone who claims to be a Christian
and has dedicated himself to Jehovah God
must not only preach
but he must be able to teach.
We must go into the homes of the people
and teach them what the Bible says.
We needed a book that could be used
effectively in conducting Bible studies,
one that would cover
the basic doctrines and truths.
Many years ago
in the Bethel dining room
after the noon meal,
Brother Knorr read off a list
of 15 to 20 brothers’ names
who were to report at his office immediately.
And they were told to write
a new study book using simple,
everyday language,
just as they would present basic Bible truths
to someone at the door.
Well, within months, that book was written,
printed, and released
as “Let God Be True.”
That book made even
a new publisher feel confident.
It was like having
a ‘bombshell’ in our hands,
capable of blowing to bits
all of the false doctrines.
At one house,
I conducted studies in that book
for 15 years with different people!
First, a woman;
next, a family;
then, some young people;
finally, another woman
—six people in all
got baptized using that book.
Still, some struggled to finish this
and the even more detailed
‘Impossible to Lie ’ book
and to make progress.
By the late 1960’s,
a book was needed
that got right to the point.
They called it the “blue bomb.”
And it was a game changer
—a game changer.
It was written in a simple, clear,
and pointed way so that any sincere reader
could understand it.
I used to deal drugs.
I wanted to change, but I didn’t know how.
Then, my manager gave me the Truth  book.
I was immediately convinced
I had found the truth
and the real meaning of life.
From then on,
everyone who came looking for drugs
got a Truth  book instead!
By the early 1980’s,
the field needed something new.
Could a book be produced at the same level
as the Bible Stories  book
but with the information
presented in the Truth  book?
I had no Bible studies at all.
Now, I have three,
and a fourth one is ready to start.
Thank you!
I was studying with a man
who had been smoking for 17 years.
Then he started to read
the Live Forever  book.
That did it.
Any book that powerful
shouldn’t go to waste sitting on the shelf.
Only a decade later, the world had changed.
In some lands, so many wanted to study
that they were put on a waiting list.
Other lands faced a different problem.
Somehow, we dillydally
with some of our students.
[It] takes us years
to bring some into the truth,
and we wonder why.
Maybe this book,
with its pointed truths,
will open their minds
and their hearts to see.
The Live Forever  book
helped me to love Jehovah,
but the Knowledge  book
helped me to make the decision to serve him.
My husband studied the Knowledge  book
while he was working in Poland.
He loved it so much that he translated it
into Mongolian and sent it to us.
Soon we were all baptized.
My husband then joined
the real Mongolian translation team.
Still, we needed a book
that not only sped up disciple-making
but also touched the heart.
This book has an instant appeal
that quickly draws householders
into a conversation.
Some are calling it the Gold Nugget!
I was searching for something to fill
the emptiness
that we both felt in our lives.
I was being trained
by one of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
and she said, “Feel free
to read whatever I have in my toolbox.”
I opened it,
and immediately a little yellow book,
What Does the Bible Really Teach?,
caught my eye.
The scriptures at the beginning of the book,
they touched my heart immediately,
and I felt like,
‘These answer all the questions
I’ve been searching for my entire life!’
. . . publication entitled
What Can the Bible Teach Us?
It was like having
a ‘bombshell’ in our hands.
It really touched the heart,
and it helped bring many into the truth.
I found answers to all my questions
in just one book.
This book was sent from God.
The best teaching tool
I’ve ever been privileged to use.
We thought this was the book
—the only book—
and that there never could be another.
Many of you have used every one
of those publications over the years.
Like me, you have felt that each one
was a great instrument for its time.
But we’re not stuck in the past.
We look to the future.
What is the future of disciple-making?
Listen as Brother David Splane
delivers the talk
“Wouldn’t It Be Great . . .?”
The yeartext for 2020 was
about the preaching work:
“Go . . . make disciples . . . ,
baptizing them.”
Now, in harmony with that theme,
the Governing Body directed
that a number of study articles
should be prepared
for the study edition
of The Watchtower
about the ministry and particularly
about conducting Bible studies.
Then at the regional convention this summer,
why, almost the entirety of Saturday
was dedicated to the disciple-making work.
Why?
We don’t just want to report Bible studies;
we want to make disciples.
That’s what Jesus told us to do:
“Go . . . make disciples . . . ,
baptizing them.”
Now, when it comes to reporting
Bible studies, we’re doing very well.
Worldwide, we’re reporting
about ten million Bible studies.
And when you think of it, in many cases,
more than one person
is sitting in on that study.
So it could be
that between 12 and 15 million people
are studying the Bible with us.
But now,
what about the “make disciples” part of it?
Well, every year,
between 200 and 300 thousand people
are baptized.
So you can see that the “make disciples” part
is lagging behind
the reporting Bible studies part.
Now, this trend has been a concern
of the Governing Body for a number of years.
And we wondered,
‘Why is it that so many people
are not taking a stand for the truth?’
You can probably think
of a number of reasons yourself.
Some people, for example, are quite happy
to learn what the Bible teaches,
but they’re not willing
to act on what the Bible teaches.
They’re not willing
to make drastic changes in their life.
Some may have studied
through a whole book or maybe two,
but they haven’t been to a single meeting
—maybe one, maybe the Memorial once.
Well, they make us think of something
that Jehovah told the Israelites
back in the days of Ezekiel.
I’d like you to turn to Ezekiel chapter 33,
and we’re going to read verse 32.
Now, this was a description
of the Israelites in Ezekiel’s day,
but I think you’ll find
that the description fits pretty well
a few of our Bible students.
Ezekiel chapter 33 (I’ll give you a moment),
and we’re going to read verse 32:
“Look! You are to them
like a romantic love song,
“sung with a beautiful voice
“and skillfully played
on a stringed instrument.
“[But then notice this.]
“They will hear your words,
but no one will act on them.”
Doesn’t that describe some
of our Bible students?
Or maybe the study isn’t regular;
maybe it isn’t consistent.
Maybe the student often cancels
or maybe the publisher often cancels.
Well, if a study isn’t regular,
it’s pretty hard for the person
to make progress, isn’t it?
And in many cases, kindhearted publishers
just can’t bring themselves to stop the study
when no progress is being made.
Or they may say:
‘If I stop the study, I won’t have a study.
I like having a Bible study.’
Well, we’re talking about progressive
Bible studies, and that’s a challenge.
It’s not easy to conduct
a progressive Bible study.
There are so many factors to consider.
For example: ‘How early do I bring in prayer?
‘How do I direct interest
to the organization?
‘How early should I mention the meetings?
And what do I do if my Bible student
doesn’t show up at the meeting?’
What about opposition?
That can be tricky.
Bring it up too soon,
and you might scare him off.
Wait too long, and it may be too late.
And what about the ministry?
‘How do I encourage my Bible student
‘to share what he is learning with others?
‘These are a lot of challenges,
‘and don’t even mention
helping my Bible student
to break a bad habit like smoking.’
Wouldn’t it be great
if we could get some help
with some of these things?
Here’s more food for thought:
‘How do I make sure that the material
‘is really touching the student’s heart?
‘I want that student to love Jehovah,
to get to know Jehovah.
‘I want him to have
a warm personal relationship
‘with Jehovah so that no one
‘—neither the boss nor his relatives
nor his mate nor his neighbor—
will be allowed to come
between my student and Jehovah God.’
Here’s another thing
for conducting a Bible study:
We want to focus on the Scriptures.
Jesus said: “The seed is the word of God.”
‘So, now, how do I draw my student out
‘as to his feelings about this scripture?
‘Maybe he understands
what the scripture says,
but how does he feel
about what he is learning?’
Wouldn’t it be great
if some of those questions
were prepared for us?
Bible students also have challenges
in their personal life.
Wouldn’t it be great
if we could bring someone
on our study who has gone through
a similar situation as the students?
who understands
what the student is going through?
That would really take
the pressure off, wouldn’t it?
And how can you evaluate
the progress of the student?
‘How do I know if the student
is steadily working
‘toward becoming an unbaptized publisher
and then getting baptized?’
Here’s another thing:
One of the reasons why it takes so long
for some to make progress
is that there are two books
and a brochure to go through.
That’s a lot of reading.
And when you think of it,
a lot of our students
have never opened a book
since they left school.
So for them, this is a big change.
Some get baptized
before they’ve covered the second book,
and that’s a pity because they’re losing out
on practical information on Christian living
that they really need to have.
And then some of our brothers and sisters
are not even using
the Jehovah’s Will  brochure
to direct interest to the organization.
‘The Jehovah’s Will  brochure?
What’s that?’
Exactly!
Wouldn’t it be great if in just one book,
we could cover all
of the basic doctrinal matters,
all of the matters about Christian living,
and direct people’s interest
to the organization
—in just one book?
That truly would be great.
Well, maybe right now, you’re saying:
‘All right, I understand.
‘We do need some help with this,
but what are you doing about it?’
I’ll tell you.
In April 2018,
the Service Committee of the Governing Body
surveyed the branches
to find out what teaching methods
were really effective
in bringing people along to baptism.
We have to admit that some
of the study material and teaching methods
that were used 30 years ago
were great for the time,
but they don’t necessarily
meet the needs of people today.
Well, they got some good answers in.
And based on the answers,
early in 2019, a team of brothers
—there were writers and
there were designers and consultants—
they got together to investigate
whether we could improve
on the tools that we’re using.
And they came up
with a new method
for conducting studies.
Now, let’s stop here and be very clear.
We deeply appreciate
all of the study material
that we’ve had over the years.
It’s always been great for the times.
Now, maybe like me,
you cut your teeth on “Let God Be True,”
“This Means Everlasting Life,”
“The Truth Shall Make You Free,”
—those books were just perfect
for the period just after World War II.
And then we know that the Live Forever  book
was a real favorite with many.
Now, it wasn’t the “Study Forever” book;
it was the Live Forever  book.
But some took an awful long time
to complete their study in that book.
And, of course, we’ve all appreciated
the Teach Us  book
and the Remain in God’s Love  book.
All of this material
has been very, very good.
But times change,
and people’s needs change as well.
We’re living in a visual society,
and people learn less
by reading than by observing,
by watching, and by discussion.
So, what are we saying?
Are you ready?
Today, the Governing Body
is happy to announce
that a brand new publication
for conducting Bible studies
will soon be made available
in printed form and in electronic form.
Would you like to know the title?
It’s a good one.
Enjoy Life Forever!
—An Interactive Bible Course.
The title is taken from Psalm 22:26:
“Those seeking Jehovah will praise him.
May you enjoy life forever.”
Isn’t that nice?
Isn’t that a nice text?
How was the course put together?
Well, the branches
sent in all of their comments,
and they were good comments.
And then the writers got busy,
and they analyzed the comments
that were sent in by the branches.
And on the basis of those comments,
three sample lessons were prepared.
Now, the lessons look good on paper,
but would they work in the field?
To find out, those lessons were sent
to 97 different countries
for field-testing,
and the results were very encouraging.
So all 60 lessons in the book
were sent to the field for testing.
Now, the question may come up:
‘Who are the testers?
‘Did you get all the circuit overseers,
‘the missionaries,
the special pioneers together
and have them test the material?’
Well, there were some of those,
but not all were circuit overseers,
not all were missionaries,
or special pioneers.
So a wide variety of brothers
and sisters were used in this test.
Some were quite new in the truth,
and others had been in the truth
for quite some time.
The result is the publication
that will soon be made available.
Now, what’s different about this course?
I’m not going to go into much detail
because Brother Jackson
is going to handle that.
But here are a couple of points:
First of all, very important,
all of the information
that’s required to answer the 60 questions
for baptismal candidates
is covered thoroughly in this book.
All of the information needed
—that is, Bible topics,
Christian living topics,
directing interest to the organization—
is all thoroughly covered in just one book.
You do not, repeat,
you do not have to study a second book.
What’s the format like?
Well, it’s somewhat similar
to the midweek Meeting Workbook,
and you’ll see that it’s organized in a way
that there can be a free discussion
between the student and the conductor.
In fact, in each lesson,
there are just a few introductory paragraphs
that the student is invited
to read ahead of time.
But most of the lesson will be handled
between the conductor and the student.
It will be a discussion.
The material will focus on the Scriptures.
A typical sentence might read:
‘Read this scripture;
then answer these questions.’
And the questions are provided.
The electronic copy of the book
has links to some 200 different videos
that you can view during the study.
Remember the problem
of having somebody along on the study
who has gone through
the same problems as the student has?
Problem solved.
You just look up a video interview
and play that for the student.
And no doubt, he will glean
a great deal of benefit from it.
At regular intervals,
tactful reference is made
to sharing the truth with others.
A typical question,
‘How would you explain
what you just learned to a friend?’
At the end of every lesson,
the student is given a goal
that he can work toward.
And that way, it will help him
to evaluate his progress.
And Jehovah’s qualities
are showcased throughout the book.
We want the student to realize
that Jehovah loves him very much
and that Jehovah’s feelings are influenced,
or affected, by the decisions
that the student makes.
And that way, he will cultivate a warm,
personal relationship with Jehovah.
Well, we humans
are creatures of habit, aren’t we?
We’ve used the simple
question-and-answer method
for many, many years
in conducting Bible studies.
And it has met the needs in the past.
But in our communication with the branches,
it has become obvious
that something else is needed.
So ask Jehovah to help you
to get used to this new method, and use it.
You’ll be glad you did.
We pray that Jehovah
will bless our efforts to use this tool.
And wouldn’t it be great if when you use it,
you not only study with people
but make disciples of them?
Thank you, Brother Splane.
What an exciting announcement!
Brother Splane asked,
‘Wouldn’t it be great
if you could make a disciple?’
That is a great thought.
How do you feel, though,
about learning this new way
of conducting Bible studies?
Are you excited?
Are you eager to start,
or are you a little uneasy?
Brother Geoffrey Jackson
is going to help you see
how you can confidently use
our new book on Bible studies.
His talk is entitled
“Yes, It Would Be Great, But . . .”
Wouldn’t it be great?
Yes, it would be great.
But we have a lot of questions, don’t we?
The first question is,
Did we hear that correctly
—that not only are we receiving
a new publication
but we’re also starting a new method
of conducting Bible studies?
The answer is yes.
But why is that necessary?
Well, to answer that question,
let’s think of a few things
that have changed in recent years.
For example, think about
the New World Translation
and the revision
of the New World Translation.
Was that revised
because the Reference Bible
was no longer any good?
No.
We remember the explanation given:
that reading skills of people have changed.
No longer do people enjoy reading
and taking that slow journey
to eventually get to a destination.
But rather, in this modern age,
we find that people
are wanting to get
to the destination very quickly.
They want clear, simple explanations
that give them the meaning quickly.
But what if when the Governing Body
were considering
whether or not
to revise the New World Translation
had said, ‘But we can’t do this
‘because the brothers and sisters
would have to learn a whole lot
‘of new vocabulary
and all their favorite scriptures
‘they’d have to memorize again
‘and they probably wouldn’t be able
to find those verses
on the right page in the Bible.’
But the Governing Body didn’t decide that
(not to have the revision).
But rather, we saw how Jehovah blessed
the revision of the New World Translation.
And haven’t we been happy
using this and getting
the benefits from it?
But not only have reading skills changed
but also learning skills,
and that’s shown by some of the adjustments
that have been made to our midweek meeting.
Now we see our midweek meeting
is fast-moving, it’s interesting,
and it seems so much easier
to learn things about the Bible.
Recently, I was talking to a sister
who has been in the truth for about 65 years,
and she said concerning the midweek meeting,
“I have learned more about the Bible
in the last few years
than in the previous 60 years.”
And isn’t that true?
But what if the Governing Body
when they were considering this change
had said, ‘Well we can’t make that change
because the older brothers and sisters
won’t be able to adapt to it.’
Aren’t we happy that the change was made?
Of course we are,
because we can see the beautiful benefits
that have come from that change.
When we think about all these changes
that have occurred,
we can see that it fulfills
what Jehovah promised.
And if you turn with me,
please, to the book of Isaiah
—Isaiah chapter 60.
And let’s remind ourselves of what is said
in the beginning of verse 17.
Here Jehovah promises:
“Instead of the copper I will bring in gold,
“and instead of the iron
I will bring in silver,
“instead of the wood, copper,
and instead of the stones, iron.”
Doesn’t this nicely describe the promise
that Jehovah has made to help us
to keep improving
the various things that we’re doing
with preaching the good news
and also our spiritual feeding programs?
Yes, things continue to improve.
But let’s also remember how verse 16
in the same chapter starts.
It says:
“And you will actually drink
the milk of nations.”
We probably remember that The Watchtower
has helped us to understand
that this ‘milk of the nations’
involves all the things
that are being developed,
including modern technology.
And Jehovah’s people with Jehovah’s blessing
have used many of these modern things
to help us with teaching and preaching.
Yes, as Brother Splane said very accurately,
“Times change, and people’s needs change.”
And that’s very true.
As we’ve seen,
reading skills have changed
and learning skills have too.
So for that reason, over the last few years,
our Bible study tools have changed slightly.
We’ve seen how they’ve become
simpler and easier to use,
and many of us are using videos
along with these publications.
But, of course,
sometimes it gets a little complicated
because we’re not quite sure
what video to show when.
How refreshing it was
when we saw that the digital version
of the Good News  brochure
had videos embedded in it!
So you’re able to tap on the video
and have the right video at the right time
when you’re conducting a study.
Well, this new publication
takes all of this experience
that we’ve gained from trying
to enhance our Bible study tools,
and now we have something
that will be very easy to use.
But what does the publication look like?
Brother Splane mentioned
that it had been field-tested.
Those who have already used it
—what did they say
about this new publication?
And how does the Governing Body feel
All those questions
are answered in this video.
Jehovah has always given us
the right tool at the right time
to teach others.
And this new book is no exception.
How is this book organized?
Each lesson is divided into three parts.
How do you use it to conduct a Bible study?
You might encourage your student
to read the first part of a lesson in advance
and to note the questions in bold
and the key scriptures.
Begin each study by reading and discussing
the first part together.
Next, consider together
the “Dig Deeper” section.
Begin by reading the introductory statement,
which explains what follows,
and take note of the subheadings
that outline the main points.
Read the scriptures,
watch the provided videos together,
and then discuss how
the scriptures and videos
answer the related questions.
Discuss the artwork with the student.
Then follow with the questions
found in the “Some People Say” section.
Then, read the “Summary”
and discuss the “Review” questions.
Your student can enter the date
the lesson was completed.
Each lesson
provides a “Goal” for the student,
and the “Explore” section
offers additional content
that may be useful depending
on your student’s needs and interests.
Yes, this tool is very different.
Why was it designed this way?
It’s a lot like
the teaching used in our theocratic schools.
It is very interactive.
On the one hand,
the lessons are written in such a way
to really make the student
think about what he is learning.
This tool has the ability
to involve the Bible student.
It shows them a video,
and then they have references
they can look at.
But the way that it’s designed involves them.
And it’s really going to give them
a good foundation.
On the other hand, the teacher can use
the viewpoint questions
to draw out how the student really feels
about what he’s learning from God’s Word.
This is the most thoroughly
field-tested publication
that we have ever produced.
From writing the text
to simplifying the text
—polishing it, getting it ready—
it has been produced
so that it can be translated
into many languages
so as to help people everywhere.
Yes, this tool is very different,
but is it effective?
Hundreds of publishers in almost 100 lands
tested the lessons.
What do they say about it?
I love the new layout.
It’s current, and it’s intuitive.
And the way the Bible truths are presented
—it’s very logical and easy to understand.
I think it’s going to be a game changer.
The “Dig Deeper” section is amazing.
It ensures that the teaching
comes directly from the Bible.
Because this part of the study
becomes a conversation,
the students answer right from their hearts,
which allows me to learn a lot more
about how they think and feel.
The new method really helps us
to convince the mind and reach the heart.
Most of all, it helps
both the teacher and the student
to focus on the Scriptures
rather than on the study aid.
We never heard anybody say
“the paragraph says”
because when they did answer the question,
they were expressing what
they really believed.
The lessons are both logical and concise.
The method is highly interactive.
The students not only respond
in their own words
but are also able to come
to the correct conclusions
all by themselves.
It helps me as the teacher to talk less,
and it helps the student
to express himself and to think.
And the videos elicited comments
(sometimes of even a personal nature)
that probably never would’ve come out
had it not been for the videos.
The aim is to get to know Jehovah,
to love Jehovah,
to learn what his will is for us
and to do that will,
and also to draw close to his organization.
I have been in full-time service
for over 50 years.
I conduct several Bible studies.
These lessons cannot be compared with others.
They are more effective and just what
we need for our times.
It equips them to explain to others
what they have learned.
And as a teacher,
that fills me with so much joy
that I am motivated to be zealous
and find more new Bible studies.
We are so excited about this new approach
to teaching Bible truths!
The main points stand out,
the application is clear,
and it’s easy to remember.
And everybody can benefit from it
—from those with little or no education
to those who are highly educated.
Our students are going to love
this new publication.
And we will too, as this will make us
better teachers of God’s Word
so as to make more disciples
before the end comes.
And how do members of the Governing Body
feel about this innovative approach?
This book has the potential
to draw many honesthearted ones
into Jehovah’s organization
to serve alongside us in pure worship
and dedicate their lives to Jehovah.
Compared to all the Bible study tools
we’ve used in the past,
this is gold.
And that’s what it’s all about
—helping that student
build a close relationship with Jehovah.
And unquestionably,
this new publication,
this marvelous gift from Jehovah,
will help us accomplish this worthy goal.
We humbly recognize
that whatever tool we use,
only Jehovah can make it grow.
So we’re praying that Jehovah
will grant success to this new tool
to build and make disciples of Christ.
We are not just preachers.
We are teachers.
We are disciple-makers.
This new book gives us what we need
to help others love Jehovah,
follow Christ,
get baptized,
and Enjoy Life Forever!
What a fantastic new publication!
I’m sure all of us
are looking forward to using it.
But you may be thinking:
‘How big is it?
How many pages are there?’
Well, there are 256 pages,
and there are 60 lessons.
Well, you may be thinking:
‘Will that be overwhelming to many people
‘when we show them this new publication?
‘Many of our Bible studies that we start
‘do lessons 1 and 2, and then by 3,
perhaps they stop studying.
‘So if we’re using a large publication,
‘could it be that it would be
a waste of a publication
‘if someone isn’t going to continue to study?
‘Wouldn’t it be great
if we also had something else
that would introduce this new study system?’
And that’s exactly
what we’re happy to announce:
the release of a new brochure entitled
Enjoy Life Forever
—Introductory Bible Lessons.
Now, this new brochure contains within it
the first three lessons
of the new publication.
When you look at the back of this brochure,
you’ll notice that it’s designed similarly
to the design of our tracts.
It has the questions:
“Is it possible to enjoy life forever?
Would you say yes? no? maybe?”
The explanation that’s given below,
along with the scriptures, helps us then
to direct the attention
to the first lesson in the brochure.
And this first lesson
is entitled “How Can the Bible Help You?,”
the second lesson is “The Bible Gives Hope,”
and the third lesson,
“Can You Trust the Bible?”
What a wonderful way
to introduce this new publication!
So once we’ve gone through the brochure
and finished the three lessons,
if someone shows
that they really want to continue
in their Bible study,
then we introduce them
to the larger publication
and start at lesson 4.
Wow!
That’s so exciting, isn’t it?
It will be very easy to use this
and also to use the electronic version,
which has been developed
at the same time as the printed version.
With the electronic version in JW Library®,
you’ll be able to just tap the link
and it will take you to the videos
or to the verses
or to the reference material.
Isn’t that exciting?
I’m sure all of us are looking forward
to being able to use this new brochure
and the new publication
to start Bible studies.
But there’s still one question left,
Wouldn’t it be great
if we can use these publications
to help other persons to become disciples,
yes, and to enjoy life forever?
Yes, that will be great, Brother Jackson!
Thank you.
It is exciting to have
such an innovative new tool
to conduct Bible studies.
That first exposure
to the introductory study brochure
was very helpful.
But you might be thinking:
‘The video was presented so fast;
‘it’s a blur in my mind.
‘I’m not sure if I understand
all of the features
or how the study is to progress.’
Well, take heart.
For one thing, you can watch
that video over and over again
if you’d like.
But also, please know that more information
will be coming to help you assimilate
these new teaching techniques in the future.
What is next on our program?
Over the past few years,
our annual meeting program has presented
a longer-than-usual animated edition
of Become Jehovah’s Friend.
It is always special.
This year is no exception.
We are pleased to present to you young ones
and all of you who are still young at heart
the new epic edition,
entitled Jehovah Forgives.
Please enjoy the presentation.
It was Jesus’ last night with his apostles.
You are the ones
who have stuck with me in my trials.
Soon, Jesus would be arrested.
It was going to be very hard for them.
All of you will be stumbled
in connection with me on this night,
for it is written:
“I will strike the shepherd,
and the sheep of the flock
will be scattered about.”
They were going to run away
and abandon Jesus.
But Peter said:
Although all the others
are stumbled in connection with you,—
—“I will never be stumbled!”
Very good, Caleb!
Peter thought he was strong
and would never make Jehovah sad.
I tell you, Peter,
a rooster will not crow today
until you have denied knowing me three times.
Cock-a-roo!
No, it’s cock-a-doodle-doo!
Nuh-uh.
That’s not a rooster!
Hey, kids!
It’s not important how the rooster sounds.
I’ll never make Jehovah sad!
Me neither!
We know you’d never want to.
But Jesus knew Peter would be afraid.
And when you are afraid . . .
[Screeching brakes]
Oh, no!
You’re late!
Hurry!
Grab your bags!
Careful!
Love you kids!
See you later!
Be good!
Bye, Mom! Bye, Dad!
I’m home!
Uh, hello!
Anybody?
He had a rough day.
Aww, what happened?
Caleb, are you OK?
What if Jehovah doesn’t wanna be
my Friend anymore?
Hmm.
Jehovah wants to be your Friend.
But if you did something bad,
he wants you to tell.
OK.
So today at school,
I was outside on the playground.
Hey, Caleb.
Oh, hey.
Uh, I was just, uh . . .
You can have it.
Wait!
I thought he can’t have it.
Yeah!
Which is it?
Uh, I didn’t want it anyway.
But I thought the Bible says you can’t?
Uh, it says . . .
C’mon!
What does it say?
Uh, I’m not sure.
But you came to my house the other day
to talk about the Bible.
Don’t you remember?
Um, yeah.
Maybe that wasn’t me.
Uh, ha-ha.
Huh!
That was you, but you’re scared.
[Ringtone of a rooster crowing]
Hi, Honey.
Yeah, I can’t talk right now.
Can you give me a call back later?
That was a rough day.
Do you remember when Peter said
he would never stumble?
Later that night,
Jesus was arrested.
Move it!
Peter loved him and wanted to help.
But doing the right thing isn’t always easy.
You too were with Jesus the Galilean!
Ah, I don’t know what you’re talking about.
Wait!
This is one of them!
I do not know the man!
Hey,
you follow Jesus!
I saw you in the garden with him, did I not?
I swear, I do not know the man!
[A rooster crows twice]
Peter knew the right thing to do.
But he was afraid and did the wrong thing.
Just like at school.
Yes.
Peter didn’t want to make that mistake
ever again.
But he wondered if Jesus and Jehovah
would still be his friends.
After Jesus was resurrected,
he talked to Peter.
Simon, son of John,
do you love me?
Yes, Lord,
you know I have affection for you.
Jesus forgave him!
And so did Jehovah.
But Peter had to talk to Jesus.
If you upset Jehovah,
what do you think you have to do?
Talk to Jehovah.
That’s right.
You need to pray to ask for forgiveness.
And Jesus showed Peter that he was forgiven
by giving him more work to do.
Shepherd my little sheep.
So why didn’t Peter give up
when he made a mistake?
Because Jehovah forgives.
Hey, guys!
Oh, wait!
I’m gonna need to explain birthdays.
Can you help me?
Of course.
That was a masterful application
of a Bible example
about Jehovah’s forgiveness.
Caleb got the point, and so did all of us.
Did you notice at the very end
that Caleb asked his father
to help him explain our stand on birthdays?
Please look forward
to an upcoming Video on Demand segment
where his father does just that.
And by the way,
we are making a poster available online.
And you’ll be happy to know
that posters will be made available
for the other epic animation videos
of the Become Jehovah’s Friend  series.
The pandemic in 2020
changed the way we carried out true worship.
The Memorial last year
was experienced in private homes,
our preaching methods were changed,
and our regional conventions
were transformed into prerecorded sessions.
But we were all cared for spiritually.
What was involved in making this all happen
so quickly and effectively?
Please watch our next video.
Twenty-twenty was a year
of unprecedented change.
The coronavirus pandemic
has taken a grim toll around the world.
In some parts of the world,
the coronavirus is . . .
beginning to spread more quickly.
This global pandemic has thrown the world
into a state of uncertainty.
On a global scale, it was unlike anything
Jehovah’s people
had yet experienced in the 21st century.
Everyday life for many of us
has been disrupted in ways
we might never have imagined.
We’ve made dramatic adjustments
to our activities all over the world.
Learn how to use new apps like Skype®
and Zoom—what’s that?
It changed how we attended meetings,
engaged in the ministry,
and visited with friends.
For some of us,
this may have been
the very first time we ever held
a Memorial in our home.
And although attending in smaller groups
may have been even closer
to how the Memorial
was observed in earlier times,
for most modern-day servants of Jehovah,
this was likely a unique experience.
Then, during the summer,
we enjoyed a full convention program,
with talks delivered directly
from Governing Body members
and their helpers,
and in most cases,
again, streamed right into our homes.
Yes, despite the various challenges
and difficulties experienced in 2020,
Jehovah’s organization continued undaunted
providing the right food at the right time.
But why was this convention
unlike any other
in our organization’s history?
What were the challenges?
And most important,
what have been the benefits?
On March 11, 2020,
the World Health Organization
made the assessment
that COVID-19 could be characterized
as a pandemic.
At that point, we had no idea
as to what governments
were going to do worldwide.
Would they allow our brothers
to meet in Kingdom Halls?
to meet in larger venues?
We had no idea whatsoever.
The Governing Body
approved a letter to all branches
canceling all live conventions worldwide.
And the idea was
for us to prerecord a program
that could be used in any location
around the world
so that they would at least have
the program of the regional convention.
We wanted to ensure
that this spiritual food got out there
to all of our dear brothers and sisters.
More important,
we wanted to make certain
that this program went forward,
because it honors Jehovah.
He’s the Source of the joy that we have.
So, very quickly, speakers were
each assigned two convention parts.
They had to prepare them,
and it was scheduled to have all these talks
recorded during the last two weeks of April.
Giving a talk at an open arena
or at a large event,
you have the opportunity of getting
feedback from the audience.
If you say something
that impresses the audience
or makes them happy,
seeing the smiling faces there,
somehow that really stirs up our presentation
and helps us to make it
more lively and meaningful.
But being in the basement
of the office building,
looking at a camera
with nobody else in the room,
knowing that it’s just a couple of persons
recording it in another room certainly is
a very different way to present a talk.
And Jehovah has allowed us
to endure this time of pandemic,
but he also had to know
—and we’re convinced he knew—
that we could still make
this “Always Rejoice”! program happen
because we would use the tools
available to us, and he would help us.
And that’s exactly what we did.
Next, let’s take a closer look
at some additional challenges faced
once the talks were recorded.
We had the opportunity to hear
from some of the departments involved.
Brothers,
how did the team adapt to the challenges?
Well, the reaction, initially,
was that we were very excited.
We love to try new things,
and this was a huge opportunity
to do just that.
But then as we had more meetings about it,
we found out what was going to be involved.
We suddenly got very nervous
because we found out
about all the translation
and how soon everything had to be finished.
What impact did that have?
Audio/Video Services had never produced
an online program of this size before.
You’re talking
an 18-hour online regional convention
that had to be produced
in a very short time.
Most years,
we just translate the outlines,
which are relatively easy,
and then we translate
all the convention videos and dramas.
But this year,
the translators not only had to do
that work of translating the videos
but they had to translate
the scripts for each talk and then arrange
for recording all of those talks.
It was a tremendous amount of work.
Some of us were saying:
“Can we postpone it?
“Can we ask
“to write back and say,
‘Brothers, please, can we do it later?’”
because we just thought
it was impossible to do.
The government in India
had announced a complete lockdown,
so overnight
we were without our offices,
our computer equipment,
our recording studios,
the level of connectivity we enjoyed.
We felt like a carpenter
who’s asked to produce furniture
but has no access
to his toolbox or his workshop.
That is a lot to contend with.
What are some unique solutions
that the teams came up with
to meet those various challenges?
Well, there were amazing solutions.
One of the things that impressed me
was the recording studios that were made.
Normally the translators go into the RTO
or the branch to do the recording,
but now they had to make
hundreds of makeshift studios in their homes.
How would translators accomplish the work
outside the branch
with the power coming in and out?
Well, the brothers would wait,
and as soon as the power came,
they would start working,
no matter what time it was in the day.
Our brothers are so dedicated
that they accomplished the work.
Very touching.
Our brothers who do sign language recordings
had to record
in front of a camera,
but they also ideally needed
to have a background behind them
that was bright green or bright blue
so that their signing could be superimposed
onto another video.
And so some brothers
were able to get a cloth.
Many of our brothers
painted a wall in their house
this bright chartreuse color.
Admirable ingenuity—thank you.
One of the most interesting solutions
was that many of the translators
around the world
in different branches would go
into their car late at night
when all the noise had subsided
in the neighborhood,
and they would do the recording
inside the car.
Thank you and everyone working with you
for being so willing to adapt.
In your opinion,
what made all of this possible?
Despite a global pandemic,
despite a lockdown
—none of those things
mattered to Jehovah’s organization.
What has shut down various other things
throughout the world
proved to be no obstacle for Jehovah
and his earthly organization.
And what a beautiful thing it is
to see this program be something
that’s enjoyed by everyone worldwide!
Here, despite the conditions
going on in the world around us,
Jehovah’s people are moving forward.
And you really see
the fulfillment of Malachi 3:18,
where it says
that ‘you will see a distinction
between those serving Jehovah
and those who don’t.’
Everyone who had a part in this
—the thousands of brothers
and sisters around the world
who had a part in bringing
these convention programs
to our brothers and sisters—
they’re just normal people
like you and me,
but Jehovah uses normal people
to accomplish incredible things.
This convention
has been a landmark convention
because of the content
and the beautiful theme,
but we’ll also remember it
for the way Jehovah helped us
to produce it in so many languages
for our brothers and sisters
in the country and around the world.
Well, in translation, we like verbs,
and in Jehovah’s name, there’s a verb:
“He Causes to Become.”
This 2020 convention was proof
that Jehovah causes whatever he wants
to become to accomplish his purpose,
because if there’s a convention
that Jehovah used
to give glory to his name, this is it.
What beautiful conviction!
Thank you, brothers.
Yes, Jehovah’s spirit helped ensure
that the work was accomplished
in spite of many challenges,
but what were some of the blessings
experienced once the work was done?
Because the convention
is being presented by means of video,
it’s possible to pause
at any time when necessary
just to go back a little bit
to watch something
that maybe we didn’t quite get.
And maybe even because sometimes
our minds drift,
it’s good,
because we can go back and rewatch it.
And in this way,
we get even more benefit from the program.
I cannot imagine
a convention more international
than this one.
We saw how the brothers were able
to make a difficult situation turn out well
—that is, we’re together,
even if we’re physically apart
from each other.
We are united at this convention.
Volunteers were sent by the elders to travel
and obtain the videos
due to lack of Internet in our village.
We traveled about 46 kilometers on foot.
Sometimes we would leave early in the morning
or late in the evening,
even traveling at night
in order to obtain the videos.
But with Jehovah’s blessing,
we overcame
all of these challenges.
I lost my dearest wife
about two months
before the convention started.
It was cancer.
We had been married for 14 years,
and she was only 47.
She was my greatest partner
in Jehovah’s service,
so this left me with a gaping hole.
The theme of the convention,
“Always Rejoice”!
came just at the right time for me.
I know it was Jehovah’s wonderful gift to me.
Throughout the convention,
I could see that Jehovah had sent
all the members of the Governing Body
and its helpers to me personally.
I can’t think of a better gift.
I really enjoyed the audio descriptions
because I am someone who is legally blind,
and the audio descriptions
just opened up a whole new world for me.
Ben walks out of the room
as his coworkers shake their heads.
So it was really amazing
to have the videos being described.
And for me, I felt like I could now “see”
what was happening.
A lot of what
the audio descriptions described
are things
that I normally would have been curious about
and would have been asking somebody
to help me understand.
I had tears in my eyes
knowing that the Governing Body
loves us this much.
I speak Korean.
I speak Japanese.
We made a Japanese section
and a Korean section
like what we would have
at international conventions.
In order to watch
the convention simultaneously, we would count
one, two, three and start playing
our videos at the same time.
This way we were able
to watch and sing together.
It really felt
like an international convention.
Something that I thought I would miss a lot
were the Kingdom melodies.
So then I wondered:
‘How is this going to work at home?
‘There won’t be a crowd,
everyone singing together.
How’s it going to be?’
I thought I would really miss it,
but then my family and I agreed
to sing the Kingdom melodies loudly,
and it worked!
I have never seen my family sing so loudly.
We have three children,
and all five of us
here at home got COVID-19.
And all during the time
that the convention was being shown,
we were all exhibiting symptoms.
It was a really hard time.
Our family was so encouraged
by the convention program this year.
My wife, Marisa, even said that to her,
it was as if the talks the brothers gave
were like hearing advice from a close friend
who was sitting right next to you
like they were
right in the same room with us.
The convention is very positive;
it’s contagious.
It has really touched our hearts.
I truly feel the convention
has touched my heart deeply.
Both my mom and my dad,
who are right now struggling
with very serious illnesses,
were able to join me,
my brother, and my sister-in-law,
and we were together
as a family in our living room.
We got to sing together
and watch the assembly together,
which otherwise
just would not have been possible.
Despite the struggles,
despite the limitations
that we may be facing,
none of that has stopped Jehovah
from reaching out
and even being in our own living rooms
during this convention.
Jehovah transforms something
that Satan is using right now
to take away our joy
into something that gives us joy.
Think about it:
We’re watching the same spiritual program
at the same time with the same speakers,
brothers from the Governing Body.
We never imagined
that we would have this opportunity.
OK, are we all set?
OK, we’re ready whenever you are
if you want to go ahead.
We are delighted that you
could join us for this opening session
of the “Always Rejoice”!
Convention of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
And when everything around you is chaotic,
the one thing you have
is your relationship with Jehovah.
“I will walk in your truth.
Unify my heart to fear your name.”
But we discovered something we had lost
—joy.
No matter what terror,
no matter what trial may come upon us now
or in the future,
we will be able to continue to rejoice
in Jehovah’s acts of salvation.
While 2020 seemed to be anything
but a time for rejoicing,
this year’s convention proved
that no matter
what the circumstance we are in,
Jehovah will continue to feed us,
and we will continue to worship him.
Thanks to Jehovah, we experienced
the truthfulness of Philippians 4:4,
that no matter the trail or difficulty,
we will “always rejoice in the Lord.”
Despite changing circumstances,
what can we say?
Jehovah lived up to the meaning of his name:
“He Causes to Become.”
Things happened in quick succession
with the support of his will and holy spirit.
Now back to our studio.
How encouraging!
The second part of the program
will be released on January 18
in the Video on Demand section
of JW Broadcasting.
Then I’ll be back in the studio next month
to introduce the last part of the program.
To conclude our January monthly program,
we’ll get to know brothers
in the Central African Republic
during our video postcard.
As its name suggests,
the Central African Republic
is near the exact center
of the African continent.
Landlocked, it shares its border
with six neighboring countries
and is comparable in size to France.
While it has two official languages
—French and Sango—
there are also
several other tribal languages spoken.
The Central African Republic
is rich in natural resources,
such as diamonds, gold, and timber,
not to mention beautiful wildlife,
such as antelope,
elephants,
baboons,
leopards, and many others
that roam freely.
Sadly, this country has endured many years
of armed conflicts and civil unrest,
which has resulted in severe hardship
for the people living there.
Despite these hardships,
our brothers are working tirelessly
to provide spiritual relief.
For example, in the Bozoum Congregation,
there are some 70 publishers
and several pioneers.
Together, they’re conducting
about 150 Bible studies!
Besides caring for their local territory,
the branch office
has assigned the congregation
the care of three isolated groups.
These groups are
up to 125 kilometers, or 78 miles,
away from Bozoum.
Reaching these groups
is challenging for our brothers,
since there is no public transportation
and only 3 percent
of the roads in the country
are paved.
Nevertheless, the Bozoum Congregation
regularly sends elders to give public talks
and conduct the Watchtower  Study
in Bocaranga,
since there are no appointed brothers
in that group of ten publishers.
Although there is civil unrest in Bocaranga,
the group is conducting
some 30 Bible studies.
The Bocaranga brothers and sisters
and the Bozoum Congregation
send their greetings to all of you
fellow Witnesses worldwide.
And we send our greetings back
to all of our brothers
in the Central African Republic.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting!